Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS
OUT TOUTING THE BENEFITS OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT TODAY IN THE
LATEST BID TO MOVE PAST THE
ROCKY ROLLOUT OF healthcare.gov.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD, THE BIGGEST
MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY IN U.S.
HISTORY GETS THE GREEN LIGHT.
A JUDGE RULED DETROIT CAN SHED
BILLIONS IN DEBT AND REDUCE
PUBLIC PENSIONS WHILE
OVERHAULING ITS FINANCES.
>> Woodruff: AND TENSIONS ARE
RISING IN ASIA, WHERE VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN VOICED SUPPORT
FOR JAPAN AS IT FEUDS WITH CHINA
OVER ISLANDS AND AIRSPACE.
>> WE, THE UNITED STATES, ARE
DEEPLY CONCERNED BY THE ATTEMPT
TO UNILATERALLY CHANGE THE
STATUS QUO IN THE ESTA CHINA
SEA.
>> THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE ARE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWS HOURS.
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT SOUGHT
TO SHIFT THE FOCUS TODAY, AWAY
FROM WHAT'S GONE WRONG WITH
IMPLEMENTING THE HEALTH CARE LAW
TO WHAT'S GONE RIGHT.
HE SAID THE BENEFITS ARE BEING
OVERLOOKED AMID PROBLEMS WITH
THE WEB SITE AND POLICY
CANCELLATIONS.
BUT INSURERS STILL WARN THEY'RE
GETTING UNUSABLE DATA.
WE'LL VE AHA FULL REPORT ON THE
PRESIDENT'S NEW P.R. PUSH RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
>> THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
OVER THE HEALTHCARE LAW'S
MANDATE TO COVER BIRTH CONTROL
FOR STUDENTS AND EMPLOYEES.
SCHOOL OFFICIALS WENT TO COURT
TODAY ARGUING THEY ARE BEING
FORCED TO VIOLATE ROMAN CATHOLIC
TEACHINGS, A FEDERAL JUDGE
DISMISSED A SIMILAR SUIT LAST
YEAR, SAYING THE IT WAS NOT YET
FACING IMMINENT PENALTIES UNDER
THE LAW.
>>
A FEDERAL JUDGE HAS CLEARED THE
CITY OF DETROIT TO PROCEED WITH
ITS BANKRUPTCY FILING AND SHED
UP TO $18 BILLION IN DEBT.
IT'S THE LARGEST PUBLIC
BANKRUPTCY IN U.S. HISTORY.
THE JUDGE TURNED ASIDE
CHALLENGES FROM UNIONS, PENSION
FUNDS AND RETIREES WHO STAND TO
HAVE BENEFITS CUT.
LATER, RETIRING MAYOR DAVE BING
CALLED FOR ALL PARTIES TO WORK
TOGETHER.
>> WE HAVE GOT TO START CHANGING
THE CONVERSATION AND WE CAN'T
THINK THAT BANKRUPTCY IS THE
WORST THING THAT EVER HAPPENED
TO US.
IT CAN HELP US NOW BECAUSE IT
WILL ALLOW US ONCE AGAIN TO DEAL
WITH THE THINGS THAT SHOULD HAVE
BEEN DEALT WITH OVER THE LAST 20
OR 30 YEARS.
THE CITY CANNOT GO FORWARD WITH
THE KIND OF DEBT AND LIABILITIES
THAT WE HAVE ON OUR BALANCE
SHEET.
>>
>> Ifill: DETROIT'S EMERGENCY
MANAGER, KEVIN ORR, HAS SAID THE
CITY IS NOW USING 40 CENTS OF
EVERY DOLLAR COLLECTED TO PAY
ITS DEBTS.
HE WNS TARHAT FIGURE COULD RISE
TO 65 CENTS WITHOUT BANKRUPTCY
RELIEF.
>> MAJOR CUTS IN RETIREMENT
BENEFITS FOR THOUSANDS OF STATE
EMPLOYEES, AND RETIREES, THE
LEGISLATURE APPROVED A BILL THAT
ALSO RAISES THE STATE RETIREMENT
AGE.
IT IS THE LATEST EFFORT TO HELP
ERASE THE STATE'S $100 BILLION
PENSION SHORTFALL.
BOSTON IN THE NATION, THE
GOVERNOR SAID HE WILL SIGN THE
BILL.
>> THE
THE HOUSE VOTED TODAY TO RENEW A
LONG-STANDING BAN ON PLASTIC
FIREARMS THAT CAN EVADE METAL
DETECTORS AND X-RAY MACHINES.
THE REPUBLICAN-SPONSORED BILL
PASSED ON A VOICE VOTE,
EXTENDING THE BAN ANOTHER TEN
YEARS.
DEMOCRATS SUPPORTED THE MEASURE
EVEN THOUGH THEY WANTED GREATER
RESTRICTIONS.
VIRGINIA CONGRESSMAN BOBBY SCOTT
SAID THE GUNS SHOULD CONTAIN
METAL PARTS THAT CANNOT BE
DETACHED.
>> THE LAW HAS A CRITICAL
LOOPHOLE WHICH MAY ENCOURAGE THE
PRODUCTION OF FIREARMS THAT MAY
ESCAPE DETUCK SHUN.
>> THEY MAY PRODUCE A FIREARM
THAT IS DETECTABLE ONLY BECAUSE
IT HAS A METAL COMPONENT, WHICH
IS NOT ESSENTIAL TO THE
OPERATION OF THE FIREARM BUT IS
EASILY REMOVABLE BY THE FIREARM
USER SEEKING TO AVOID DETECTION.
>>
>> Ifill: THE SENATE COULD TAKE
UP THE BILL ON MONDAY, WHEN IT
RETURNS FROM THANKSGIVING
RECESS.
THE EXISTING BAN EXPIRES ON
TUESDAY.
ON ANOTHER ISSUE, THE HOUSE
DECIDED TO SPEND THE MONEY THAT
AIR TRAVELERS ACCIDENTALLY LEAVE
AT SECURITY CHECKPOINTS.
ALL THOSE COINS ADDED UP TO MORE
THAN HALF A MILLION DOLLARS IN
2012.
UNDER THE "LOOSE CHANGE ACT," IT
WILL GO TO NON-PROFIT GROUPS
THAT RUN AIRPORT LOUNGES FOR
MILITARY PERSONNEL AND THEIR
FAMILIES.
THE BILL NOW HEADS TO THE
SENATE.
IN JAPAN, VISITING VICE
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN REBUKED
CHINA FOR IMPOSING AN AIR
DEFENSE ZONE OVER ISLANDS THAT
TOKYO ALSO CLAIMS.
HE SAID THE U.S. IS "DEEPLY
CONCERNED."
THE VICE PRESIDENT TRAVELS TO
CHINA TOMORROW.
WE'LL FOCUON WS HAT'S FUELING
THE TENSIONS IN THE EAST CHINA
SEA LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
PROTESTS EASED TODAY IN THAILAND
AS THE PRIME MINISTER ORDERED
POLICE TO AVOID NEW
CONFRONTATIONS WITH
DEMONSTRATORS DEMANDING HER
OUSTER.
DAYS OF VIOLENCE HAD LEFT FOUR
PEOPLE DEAD AND MORE THAN 250
HURT.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JONATHAN
SPARKS OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS IN BANGKOK.
>> Reporter: FOR THREE DAYS,
ANTI-GOVERNMENT PROTESTORS AND
THAI POLICE WAGED WAR IN THE
CENTER OF BANGKOK.
TODAY, HOWEVER, THE BARRICADES
CAME DOWN AND THE TWO SIDES
SHOOK HANDS.
FLOWERS WERE EXCHANGED AND TEARS
WERE SHED, AND THE POLICE GOT
OUT OF THE WAY.
THE PROTESTORS TRIED TO TAKE
THIS GOVERNMENT COMPLEX BY
FORCE.
THIS MORNING, HOWEVER, THEY
SIMPLY WALKED IN.
>> ( translated ): I THINK WE'VE
WON.
IT FEELS LIKE VICTORY.
I THINK WE'VE 90% WON IT NOW.
>> Reporter: BUT THERE WAS A
PROBLEM: THE PROTESTORS MAY HAVE
OCCUPIED THE LAWN OUTSIDE THE
PRIME MINISTER'S OFFICE, BUT
YINGLUCK SHINAWATRA WAS STILL
THE PRIME MINISTER.
A FEW HOURS AGO, ONE OF THE MOST
SECURE AREAS IN THE COUNTRY, NOW
IT IS RAMMED WITH ANTI-
GOVERNMENT PROTESTORS, LIKE AN
OPEN-DAY FETE FULL OF FESTIVE
PEOPLE.
PROTESTOR LEADERS ACCUSE THE
GOVERNMENT OF CORRUPTION, AND
THEY'RE PROMISING FAR-REACHING
REFORM, BUT THEY'RE NOT PREPARED
TO WAIT FOR THE NEXT ELECTION.
I CAUGHT UP WITH ONE OF THE
>> ( translated ): NORMALLY, WE
GIVE THEM POWER FOR FOUR YEARS,
BUT THEY'VE USED IT IN THE WRONG
WAY.
THEY'RE CORRUPT SO THE PEOPLE
WANT THE POWER BACK.
>> Reporter: THE DECISION BY THE
POLICE TO DISMANTLE THE
BARRICADES HAS COME AS A
SURPRISE.
THEY'D SPENT DAYS DEFENDING KEY
GOVERNMENT MINISTRIES, SO I
ASKED THEM WHY?
>> ( translated ): WE DID THIS
SO WE COULD TALK TO EACH OTHER
AND REDUCE TENSIONS, BUT WE ARE
NOT GOING TO LET THE PROTESTORS
DO WHATEVER THEY LIKE.
THIS DECISION WAS MADE TO AVOID
FURTHER CONFRONTATION.
>> Reporter: FOR THE COUNTRY'S
PRIME MINISTER, YINGLUCK
SHINAWATRA, A SMALL MEASURE OF
RELIEF IS EXPECTED.
WITH THE NATION NOW PREPARING
FOR THE THAI KING'S BIRTHDAY ON
THURSDAY, SHE'S ASKED PEOPLE TO
USE THE TIME TO BRAINSTORM.
BUT THE LEADERS OF THIS PROTEST,
AS WELL AS THEIR FOLLOWERS, ARE
IN NO MOOD TO NEGOTIATE.
WE WATCHED AT THE MINISTRY OF
FINANCE, WHICH THEY'VE OCCUPIED
FOR SEVERAL WEEKS, AS VOLUNTEERS
WERE TRAINED TO RESIST AND
BESIEGE.
THEY ARE ORGANIZED AND COMMITTED
TO THEIR CAUSE, AND THEY SEEM
INCREASINGLY DETERMINED.
>> Ifill: THE UKRAINIAN
GOVERNMENT SURVIVED A NO-
CONFIDENCE VOTE IN PARLIAMENT
TODAY.
THAT FOLLOWED DAYS OF ANGRY
PROTESTS AFTER UKRAINE'S
PRESIDENT SHELVED A LANDMARK
TRADE DEAL WITH THE EUROPEAN
UNION.
THOUSANDS OF PRO-E.U.
DEMONSTRATORS RALLIED OUTSIDE
THE PARLIAMENT BUILDING TODAY.
THEY VOWED TO CONTINUE THEIR
FIGHT TO OVERTHROW THE
GOVERNMENT.
THE UNITED NATIONS FOOD AGENCY
IS WARNING THAT HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE IN CONGO
WILL LOSE THEIR FOOD AID.
THE WORLD FOOD PROGRAM SAID
TODAY IT'S RECEIVED JUST A
QUARTER OF THE MONEY IT NEEDS TO
CONGOLESE THROUGH 2015.
EASTERN CONGO, IN PATICURLAR,
HAS BEEN RAVAGED BY REPEATED
ARMED REBELLIONS.
>> THE NEW YORK COMMUTER TRAINL
NODDED OFF JUST BEFORE THE CRASH
THAT KILLED FOUR PEOPLE, A UNION
LEADER SAID WILLIAM ROCKEFELLER
TOLD HIM HE NODDED AND THEN
CAUGHT HIMSELF BUT IT WAS TOO
LATE.  THE NATIONAL
TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD IS
INTERVIEWING ROCKEFELLER AS PART
OF ITS PROBE.
>> IN ECONOMIC
ECONOMIC NEWS, HOME PRICES ROSE
JUST SLIGHTLY IN OCTOBER. IT'S
THE LATEST SIGN THAT THE MARKET
IS STABILIZING AFTER A BIG RUN-
UP IN PRICES OVER THE PAST 12
MONTHS.
AND ON WALL STREET TODAY, STOCKS
FELL AGAIN AMID CONCERNS THAT
HOLIDAY SPENDING IS FALLING
SHORT.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 94 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,914.
THE NASDAQ FELL EIGHT POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 4,037.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NESHOUWR: THE POLITICS OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT; RISING
TENSIONS IN ASIA; HOW AMERICAN
STUDENTS PERFORMED ON A WORLD
WIDE REPORT CARD; AND DETROIT'S
BANKRUPTCY GETS THE GREEN LIGHT.
>> Woodruff: IN WASHINGTON
TODAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA WORKED TO
REFOCUS THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE
ON THE SUCCESSES OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
NEWSHOUR CONGRESSIONAL
CORRESPONDENT KWAME HOLMAN
BEGINS OUR COVERAGE.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT
TOUTED BENEFITS OF THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AT THE WHITE
HOUSE THIS AFTERNOON, FLANKED BY
PEOPLE WHO'VE GAINED UNDER THE
PROGRAM.
>> RIGHT NOW, WHAT THIS LAW IS
DOING IS HELPING FOLKS.
AND WE'RE JUST GETTING STARTED
WITH THE EXCHANGES, JUST GETTING
STARTED WITH THE MARKETPLACES.
SO, WE'RE NOT GOING TO WALK AWAY
FROM IT.
IF I'VE GOT TO FIGHT ANOTHER
THREE YEARS TO MAKE SURE THIS
LAW WORKS, THEN THAT'S WHAT I'LL
DO.
>> Reporter: THE PRESIDENT'S
APPEARANCE OPENED A NEW PUBLIC
RELATIONS OFFENSIVE TO MOVE
BEYOND THE LAW'S TROUBLED
ROLLOUT.
>> DO NOT LET THE INITIAL
PROBLEMS WITH THE WEB SITE
DISCOURAGE YOU BECAUSE IT'S
WORKING BETTER NOW, AND IT'S
JUST GOING TO KEEP ON WORKING
BETTER OVER TIME.
EVERYDAY I CHECK TO MAKE SURE
THAT IT'S WORKING BETTER, AND
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, WHITE
HOUSE CHIEF OF STAFF DENIS
McDONOUGH REPORTED THE
healthcare.gov WEB SITE HAD MORE
THAN ONE MILLION VISITORS
YESTERDAY AFTER WEEKS OF WORK TO
FIX IT.
THERE ALSO WERE REPORTS NOT ALL
THE KINKS HAVE BEEN SMOOTHED
OUT.
YESTERDAY, ENROLLMENT COUNSELORS
IN SOME STATES REPORTED DELAYS
MOUNTED AS THE DAY WORE ON AND
TRAFFIC ON THE WEB SITE
INCREASED.
AND A NEW PROBLEM LOOMED:
INSURERS WARNED THE SYSTEM IS
GENERATING FAULTY ENROLLMENT
DATA THAT COULD PREVENT SOME
PEOPLE FROM GETTING COVERAGE BY
JANUARY 1.
AT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY CHALLENGED
THOSE CLAIMS.
>> THAT STATISTIC THAT WAS CITED
IN THE NEWSPAPER TODAY DOES NOT
REFLECT AT ALL THE PICTURE OF
WHAT IS HAPPENING RIGHT NOW.
IN FACT, I'M NOT SURE IT'S AN
ACCURATE PICTURE OF ISSUES WITH
THE BACK END OF THE SYSTEM EVEN
GOING BACK WEEKS.
>> Reporter: THE ADMINISTRATION
ALSO REPORTED THAT NEARLY 1.5
MILLION LOW INCOME PEOPLE GAINED
COVERAGE UNDER MEDICAID IN
OCTOBER.
25 STATES HAVE EXPANDED MEDICAID
UNDER THE HEALTH CARE LAW.
BUT REPUBLICANS, LED BY HOUSE
SPEAKER JOHN BOEHNER, KEPT UP
THEIR ASSAULT ON THE OVERALL
LAW.
>> THIS BILL IS FUNDAMENTALLY
FLAWED.
IT'S CAUSING PEOPLE TO LOSE THE
DOCTOR OF THEIR CHOICE, CAUSING
THEM TO LOSE THEIR HEALTH PLAN.
AND IF THAT ISN'T ENOUGH,
THEY'RE HAVING TO PAY MUCH
HIGHER PRICES AT THE SAME TIME.
>> Reporter: OTHER REPUBLICANS
LOOKED TO BUTTRESS THOSE CLAIMS
WITH STORIES FROM CONSTITUENTS.
WISCONSIN CONGRESSMAN SEAN
DUFFY:
>> IN MY DISTRICT, DENISE NEEDS
A KIDNEY TRANSPLANT.
SHE'S LOST HER INSURANCE, SHE'S
LOST HER DOCTOR, SHE'S GOING TO
THE EXCHANGE, LOOKING FOR
INSURANCE, AND THE ONE OPTION
THAT SHE HAS DOESN'T PROVIDE
COVERAGE WITH HER CURRENT
DOCTOR.
>> Reporter: THE POLITICAL BACK-
AND-FORTH HAS INTENSIFIED AS
POLLS SHOW OPPOSITION TO THE
HEALTH CARE INITIATIVE GROWING
AND SUPPORT FOR THE PRESIDENT
FALLING.
MR. OBAMA HIMSELF HAS
ACKNOWLEDGED HE FACES AN UPHILL
FIGHT TO RECOVER, EVEN WHEN THE
WEB SITE IS FIXED.
>> TO THAT INSIDE SOME OF THE
POLITICS HERE WE TURN TO
STRATEGISTS ON EACH SIDE OF THE
HEALTHCARE FIGHT.
REPUBLICAN RON DON I DIDN'T
WORKED WITH COMMUNICATIONS
DIRECTOR, FORMER HOUSE SPEAKER
DENNIS HASTERT AND CHIEF OF
STAFF OF THE SENATE REPUBLICAN
CONFERENCE AND BRAD WOODHOUSE
FORMER COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR
FOR THE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL
COMMITTEE AND NOW PRESIDENT OF
THE DEMOCRATIC GROUP, AMERICANS
UNITED FOR CHANGE WHICH HAS BEEN
BACKING THE PRESIDENT ON
HEALTHCARE.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING HERE.
>> SO WOODHOUSE, TO YOU FIRST,
WHY IS THIS REGROUPING ON THE
PART OF THE WHITE HOUSE
NECESSARY?
>> WELL, LOOK, I THINK IT IS
NECESSARY BECAUSE WHAT WE HAVE
SEEN, THIS HAS BEEN A TOUGH
EIGHT WEEKS, THE ROLLOUT OF
HEALTHCARE.GOV COULD NOT HAVE
GONE WORSE FOR THE WHITE HOUSE
OR FOR DEMOCRATS OR FRANKLY, FOR
THE PEOPLE WHO WANT ACCESS TO
HEALTHCARE, BUT LOOK THERE IS A
FRONT FACING AGGRESSIVE PERIOD
HERE WHERE WE ARE GOING TO TRY
TO GET PEOPLE SIGNED UP AND
FIRST TWO DAYS IT LOOKS LIKE THE
HEALTHCARE WEB SITE IS WORKING,
SO WE WILL SEE WHAT REPUBLICANS
COMPLAIN ABOUT NEXT.
>> SO IF THE WHITE HOUSE IS
GOING TO DO WHAT THEY SAY THEY
ARE, THEY ARE GOING TO GET THE
WEB SITE WORKING AND ADDRESS
SOME OF THESE OTHER PROBLEMS WHY
WON'T THEY BE ABLE TO UNDO SOME
OF THE DAMAGE THAT HAS BEEN
DONE?
>> THIS IS WHAT THE PRESIDENT IS
WORRIED ABOUT, HE IS PUTTING A
FIREWALL AROUND OBAMACARE RIGHT
NOW BECAUSE DEMOCRATS ARE
RUNNING AWAY FROM IT IN DROVES
AND HE IS TRYING A LAST STAND TO
PUT THE BEST FACE OF OBAMACARE,
YOU KNOW, BEST FACE OF THE
BRANDING AROUND OBAMACARE THAT
HE CAN, BECAUSE NEXT YEAR IS AN
ELECTION YEAR AND IT IS SO
CRITICAL, AND MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS ARE LOSING THEIR
HEALTH INSURANCE THIS JANUARY
1ST AND THEY NEED TO GET SIGNED
UP INTO OBAMACARE QUICKLY.
>> BUT IF THEY GET A LOT OF
PEOPLE, IF THEY GET MILLIONS OF
AMERICANS SIGNED UP, THE WEB
SITE IS WORKING BETTER, CAN'T
THEY UNDO THAT --
>> WHAT IS REALLY INTERESTING IS
REPUBLICANS WE ALL KNOW THE WEB
SPITE IS GOING TO GET FIXED.
THE TECHNOLOGY IS GOING TO
EVENTUALLY HAPPEN WHAT WE ARE DO
YOTALKING ABOUT NOW IS THE ACCES
AND AFFORDABILITY OF OBAMACARE.
PEOPLE'S PREMIUMS ARE LIKELY TO
GO UP, PEOPLE'S DEDUCTIBLES ARE
GOING TO GO UP, THE ACCESS
AROUND TO GETTING TO THEIR
DOCTOR IS GOING TO BE
TROUBLESOME AND I THINK THAT IS
WHAT YOU WILL SEE, ALONG WITH
THE SECURITY AND LACK THEREOF OF
THE EXCHANGES.
>> Woodruff: SO WOODHOUSE, YOU
HEAR WHAT HE IS SAYING, EITHER
THE WEB SITE IS FIXED AND
WORKING VERY WELL, IT IS THE
OTHER PARTS OF THIS LAW THAT ARE
GOING TO CREATE PROBLEMS.
>> WELL, JUDY, THESE ARE JUST
SCARE TACTICS, REMEMBER YOU ARE
TALKING TO THE SAME PEOPLE WHO
SAID THERE WAS GOING TO BE DEATH
PANELS AS PART OF THIS LAW,
FIRST OF ALL, LET ME SAY THIS,
DEMOCRATS ARE NOT RUNNING AWAY
FROM THIS LAW, ALL OF THE
POLITICAL COMMITTEES ON THE
DEMOCRATIC SIDE AND THE WHITE
HOUSE ANNOUNCED AGGRESSIVE AND
OFFENSIVE EFFORTS TO PROMOTE
THIS LAW AND TO HOLD REPUBLICANS
ACCOUNTABLE, FRANKLY JUDY FOR
SABOTAGE, WE HAVE REPUBLICAN
GOVERNORS THROUGHOUT THIS
COUNTRY WHO HAVE BEEN GIVEN A
GIFT THEY CAN EXPAND MEDICAID TO
TAKE CARE OF PEOPLE WHO ARE JUST
RIGHT ABOVE THE POVERTY LINE AND
CAN'T AFFORD HEALTHCARE AND WE
ARE GOING TO HOLD THEM
ACCOUNTABLE.
WE ARE NOT AFRAID OF THE
POLITICS OF THIS.
RON IS RIGHT, THE WEB SITE IS
FIXED AND PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
GET SIGNED UP AND PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO LIKE IT.
>> Woodruff: SO HOW ARE
REPUBNS DEMOCRATS COME BACK AND
SAY, HEY IT IS WORKING, THERE
ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE BEING HELPED?
>> WELL IT IS FRANKLY THE PEOPLE
ARE PO SPEAKING FOR THEMSELVES,
AND PEOPLE ARE GETTING DROPPED
FROM THE PLAN AND HAVE TROUBLE
GETTING ACCESS AND PAYING MORE,
WHAT REPUBLICANS ARE DOING THIS
WEEK IS HAVING OVERSIGHT
HEARINGS, AT LEAST FIVE IN THE
HOUSE OVER EVERYTHING FROM
SHOULD THE GOVERNMENT BE RUNNING
YOUR HEALTHCARE TO THE QUALITY
OF WHAT IS GOING TO HAPPEN TO
SMALL BUSINESSES WITH
HEALTHCARE, YOU KNOW, THEY ARE
GOINGOING THE GAMBIT, THE, THEYE
GOING TO PUT OUT A MAJOR DIGITAL
PUSH IN THE NEXT 24 HOURS TO
TALK ABOUT THE PROBLEMS WITH
OBAMACARE SO THERE IS NO
QUESTION ABOUT IT, I THINK THE
PRODUCT DOES NOT SELL ITSELF.
I MEAN, PRESIDENT OBAMA TO HAVE
ANDREAS SCHLEICHER NECK DOTE
SOLD US A LAMP AND INSTEAD NOW
THEY ARE SAYING WELL LOOK AT
THIS GREAT PAPERWEIGHT.
>> HERE IS THE ISSUE, JUDY, IS
THAT REPUBLICANS STILL, 100
YEARS INTO THIS DEBATE STILL
HAVEN'T OFFERED THEIR PLAN,
SPEAKER BOEHNER TODAY JUST KIND
OF WAS FLIPPANT YEAH WE WILL SEE
IF WE OFFER OUR OWN PLAN, YET
OBAMA HAS HAD PROBLEMS IN THE
ROLLOUT BUT WHA WHAT THE PLAN OS
IN THE ROLLOUT IS FAR SUPERIOR
TO GOING BACK TO THE TYPE OF
DISCRIMINATION THE INSURANCE
COMPANIES PARTICIPATED IN
BEFORE, THE GENDER
DISCRIMINATION PAYING MORE FOR
HEALTHCARE COVERAGE, JUST
BECAUSE YOU ARE A WOMAN, SO, YOU
KNOW, THEY CAN ARGUE FOR THE
STATUS QUO, WE WILL ARGUE FOR
THE SUCCESS OF OBAMACARE AND
THINGS WILL PLAY OUT NEXT YEAR.
>> Woodruff: RON, IS IT ENOUGH
FOR REPUBLICANS TO CRITICIZE,
WHICH THEY CLEARLY ARE DOING OR
DO THEY NEED TO COME UP WITH AN
ALTERNATIVE ON THEIR OWN.
>> ABSOLUTELY, REPUBLICANS WERE
SHUT OUT OF THE PROCESS OF
DEVELOPING OBAMACARE, AND THEY
NEED TO TALK ABOUT THE LAW, THEY
NEED TO TALK ABOUT THE PROBLEMS
IN THE LAW BECAUSE THAT THAT IS
WHAT IT IS, YES, THEY NEED TO
TALK MORE ABOUT THE ANSWER TO
OBAMACARE.
WHAT DO THEY HAVE TO SELL?
THERE IS PLENTY, THEY BELIEVE IN
MARKET DRIVEN SOLUTIONS AND THEY
BELIEVE IN HEALTH -- HAVING
SMALL BUSINESSES, LOWER
INSURANCE COSTS TO HAVE THEM
LOWER, THEY BELIEVE IN GOING FOR
TRYING TO, FOR ALLOWING FOR
PEOPLE TO DIE THEIR INSURANCE
ACROSS STATE LINES, THEY BELIEVE
IN EXPANDED HEALTHCARE SAVINGS
ACCOUNTS, THEY BELIEVE IN PEOPLE
HAVE PREEXISTING CONDITIONS
SHOULD KEEP THEIR HEALTH
INSURANCE IF THEY ARE MAKING
CONTINUOUS PAYMENTS THERE ARE
ALL KIND OF THINGS TO TALK ABOUT
AND THERE WILL BE A TIME FOR
THAT DEFINITELY.
>> WELL, JUDY, THAT PLAN LEAVES
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
UNCOVERED, IT DOESN'T DEAL WITH
PEOPLE WHO CAN'T GET HEALTH
INSURANCE BECAUSE OF A
PREEXISTING CONDITION AND THAT
PLAN WAS SHOWN I THINK DURING
THE ROMNEY CAMPAIGN TO COVER ONE
OR 2 MILLION ADDITIONAL PEOPLE
IN THE COUNTRY.
>> LEAVING MILLIONS OF PEOPLE
OFF HEALTH INSURANCE.
>> Woodruff: HOLD ON.
>> AND RAISING THE PREMIUMS.
>> THAT IS NOT TRUE, PREMIUMS
ARE DOWN, THE COST OF
HEALTHCARE, INFLATION IS DOWN TO
ITS LOWEST POINT IN 40 YEARS,
THE COST OF THIS LAW, JUDY, IS
LOWER THAN IT WAS ESTIMATED.
THERE ARE A LOT OF GOOD ABOUT
OBAMACARE AND WE ARE PROUD OF
IT.
>> BRAD, LET ME ASK YOU ONE
FINAL QUESTION.
WE KNOW THAT A LOT OF DEMOCRATS,
A NUMBER OF DEMOCRATS HAVE BEEN
REALLY NERVOUS ABOUT THE ROLLOUT
OF THIS, THE CONTENT OF THE
HEALTHCARE LAW.
TO WHAT EXTENT HAS THE PRESIDENT
BEEN ABLE TO CALM THOSE FEARS ON
THE PART OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
RUNNING FOR REELECTION NEXT
YEAR?
>> WELL, YES, I THINK THE
PRESIDENT HAS DONE WHAT HE COULD
DO AND WHAT HE CAN DO.
HE HAS REFLECTED THE FRUSTRATION
WITH THE WEB SITE.
BUT ALL THIS CAME DOWN REALLY
COMES DOWN TO GETTING THAT WEB
SITE FIXED AND MAKING SURE THAT
PEOPLE WHO GOT THOSE
CANCELLATION NOTICES CAN GO ON
THE WEB SITE AND GET SIGNED UP
FOR NEW AND BETTER AND LOWER
COST PLANS, AND THERE IS GOING
TO BE A SPRINT HERE IN THE NEXT
THREE WEEKS TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE FIRST NUMBER OF PEOPLE CAN
DO THAT BEFORE JANUARY 1ST.
>> Woodruff: AND NOW THAT THE
WHITE HOUSE, THE DEMOCRATS ARE
CLEARLY FOCUSED ON FIGHTING BACK
ON THIS, DOES IT MAKE IT HARDER
FOR REPUBLICANS TO MAKE THE CASE
YOU ARE TRYING TO MAKE?
>> WELL, I THINK IT IS REALLY
GOING TO BE UP TO THE SENATE,
THE DEMOCRATS ESPECIALLY, THOSE
WHO ARE VULNERABLE IN RED STATES
TO MAKE THE DECISION.
IT IS THEIR BLOOD, THE QUESTION
IS, IF THEIR BLOOD PRESSURE IS
STILL UP AND SIGNING ON BILLS,
TO LEGISLATION THAT DELAYS
OBAMACARE FOR AT LEAST A YEAR
THEN THEY WILL STILL HAVE
PROBLEMS.
IF THIS BILL SMOOTHS OUT AND THE
BLOOD PRESSURE GOES DOWN THE
WHITE HOUSE IS NOT GOING TO HAVE
AS MANY PROBLEMS.
I THINK IT IS GOING TO BE UP TO
THE DEMOCRATS TO SEE WHAT
HAPPENS NEXT.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT.
WE ARE GOING TO LEAVE IT THERE,
RON BONJEAN WE THANK YOU, AND
MR. WOODHOUSE.
>> THANK YOU.
>>
>> Ifill: NOW TO RISING TENSIONS
IN ASIA, AND THE UNITED STATES'
STRONG WORDS FOR CHINA.
>> THE ONLY CONFLICT THAT IS
WORSE THAN ONE THAT IS INTENDED
IS ONE THAT IS UNINTENDED.
>> Ifill: THE VICE PRESIDENT
ISSUED THAT WARNING IN TOKYO
TODAY, ON THE FIRST STOP OF A
WEEKLONG ASIA TOUR.
HE SOUGHT TO REASSURE AN ANXIOUS
JAPAN, AS A TENSE STANDOFF
CONTINUES WITH CHINA OVER WHICH
COUNTRY CONTROLS A STRING OF
UNINHABITED ISLANDS.
>> WE, THE UNITED STATES, ARE
DEEPLY CONCERNED BY THE ATTEMPT
TO UNILATERALLY CHANGE THE
STATUS QUO IN THE EAST CHINA
SEA.
THIS ACTION HAS RAISED REGIONAL
TENSIONS AND INCREASED THE RISK
OF ACCIDENTS AND MISCALCULATION.
>> Ifill: THE DISPUTE OVER THE
ISLANDS, KNOWN AS THE DIAOYU IN
CHINA AND THE SENKAKU IN JAPAN,
HAS SPIKED SHARPLY DURING THE
PAST TEN DAYS.
IT BEGAN WHEN CHINA ANNOUNCED A
600-MILE-LONG EAST CHINA SEA AIR
DEFENSE ZONE, WHICH INCLUDES THE
ISLANDS' AIRSPACE.
THE U.S. IGNORED THAT
DECLARATION BY DISPATCHING TWO
UNARMED B-52 BOMBERS TO FLY OVER
THE ISLANDS-- OSTENSIBLY PART OF
A TRAINING MISSION-- WITHOUT
INFORMING THE CHINESE FIRST.
ON WEDNESDAY, BEIJING ANNOUNCED
IT KNEW ABOUT THE FLIGHTS, BUT
IT OFFERED NO INSIGHT INTO HOW
THE ZONE MIGHT BE ENFORCED.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE SAID
MANY TIMES BEFORE THAT WE WILL
REACT ACCORDINGLY, DEPENDING ON
THE EXTENT OF POSSIBLE THREATS
WE ARE FACING AND THE
CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> Ifill: A DAY LATER, JAPAN
ANNOUNCED ITS AIRCRAFT, TOO, ARE
CONTINUING SURVEILLANCE MISSIONS
IN THE REGION, ALSO IGNORING
CHINA'S DEMAND THAT THEY GET
PERMISSION FIRST.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE NO
PLANS TO CHANGE WHAT WE ARE
DOING OUT OF CONSIDERATION TO
CHINA.
>> Ifill: SOUTH KOREA, WHICH HAS
INTERESTS IN THE EAST CHINA SEA,
AS WELL, SAID IT ALSO WOULD NOT
RECOGNIZE CHINA'S NEW DEFENSE
ZONE.
>> ( translated ): AS OF NOW,
SOUTH KOREAN GOVERNMENT WILL
ALLOW OUR AIRPLANES TO PASS THE
ZONE WITHOUT NOTIFICATIONS TO
CHINA.
>> Ifill: CHINESE OFFICIALS HAVE
NOT BACKED DOWN AND INSTEAD
ACCUSED JAPAN OF REFUSING TO
NEGOTIATE IN GOOD FAITH.
>> ( translated ): CHINA
PROPOSED THAT CHINA AND JAPAN
SHOULD ENHANCE COMMUNICATION AND
DIALOGUE TO PROPERLY SOLVE THE
ISSUE OF FLIGHT SAFETY IN THE
OVERLAPPING ZONE.
WE HAVE DEMONSTRATED OUR
SINCERITY, BUT, THE JAPANESE
SIDE ON ONE HAND KEEPS SAYING WE
SHOULD TALK; BUT WHEN IT COMES
TO DIALOGUE, THEY KEEP THE DOOR
CLOSED.
>> Ifill: ALL OF THIS COMES
AGAINST THE BACKDROP OF CHINA
ASSERTING ITS GROWING ECONOMIC
AND MILITARY MIGHT.
LAST WEEK, THE CHINESE SENT
THEIR SOLE AIRCRAFT CARRIER INTO
THE SOUTH CHINA SEA, WHERE OTHER
TERRITORIAL AND MINERAL RIGHTS
ARE IN DISPUTE.
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN, WHO WILL
VISIT SOUTH KOREA LATER IN THE
WEEK AND BEIJING TOMORROW, SAYS
HE'LL RAISE THE AIRSPACE ISSUES
WITH CHINA'S PRESIDENT.
SO, WHAT IS BEHIND THE RECENT
ESCALATION, AND WHAT'S AT STAKE
FOR THE REGION AND THE U.S.?
I'M JOINED BY: KURT CAMPBELL,
FORMER ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF
STATE FOR EAST ASIAN AND PACIFIC
AFFAIRS DURING PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
FIRST TERM-- HE NOW HAS HIS OWN
CONSULTING FIRM; AND SUSAN
SHIRK, WHO WAS DEPUTY ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR CHINA
POLICY IN THE CLINTON
ADMINISTRATION.
SHE'S NOW A PROFESSOR OF CHINA
AND PACIFIC RELATIONS AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA.
>> WELCOME.
REPEAT SOME OF THE WORDS THAT
BIDE SAID THAT CHINA'S ACTIONS,
QUOTES, HAS RAISED REGIONAL TEX
TENSIONS AND INCREASED THE RISK
OF ACCIDENTS AND
MISCALCULATIONS.
HOW SERIOUS IS THIS?
>> IT IS PRETTY SERIOUS,
UNFORTUNATELY.
IF YOU HAD TO CHOOSE TWO
COUNTRIES THAT YOU WOULD NOT
WANT A CRISIS TO OCCUR BETWEEN
THEIR TWO MILITARIES IT WOULD
PROBABLY BE CHINA AND JAPAN,
JAPAN IS NOT, HAS NOT FIRED A
SHOT IN ANGER IN OVER 70 YEARS.
CHINA HAS, I THINK, STILL AN
UNKNOWN RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
PARTY AND THE MILITARY IN TIMES
OF CRISIS, WHAT WE HAVE IS
HIGHER OPERATIONAL TEMPOS OF
FISHING VESSELS AND OTHER
VESSELS AND AIRPLANES AROUND
THESE UNINHABITED ROCKS, REALLY
IN THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE IN THE
PACIFIC, WITH BOTH COUNTRIES
DETERMINED NOT TO BACK DOWN.
I THINK THE SITUATION IS
RELATIVELY FRAUGHT, AND THIS NEW
AIR DEFENSE ZONE THAT CHINA HAS
JUST DEMARCATED REALLY CAPTURED
AND, CAPTURES AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF CIVILIAN OVER FLIGHT AND
REMEMBER THIS IS THE COCKPIT OF
THE GLOBAL ECONOMY HERE, AND TO
RAISE RISKS AND UERTNCAINTY
ABOUT CIVILIAN AIRLINERS, THIS
IS A HOT LIKE THE DYNAMIC THAT
LED TO KLOO 7 IN 1983, THE
TRAGIC, UNFORTUNATE AND DEEPLY
PREVENTABLE CRISIS THAT TOOK
PLACE BETWEEN SOUTH KOREA AND
RUSSIA.
>> SUSAN SHIRK, THE VICE
PRESIDENT SAYS THE U.S. HAS AN
INTEREST IN LOWERING TENSIONS IN
THAT REGION.
WHAT ARE THE U.S.'S INTERESTS
AND HOW CAN THEY GO ABOUT
LOWERING THOSE TENSIONS?
>> WELL, I THINK OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAS DONE AN
EXCELLENT JOB OF SENDING VERY
CLEAR SIGNALS ABOUT ITS
INTERESTS IN MAINTAINING
STABILITY IN THE REGION, AND
STANDING BY ITS ALLY JAPAN.
BOTH THE SECRETARY OF STATE AND
THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE MADE
OFFICIAL STATEMENTS # SOMETHING
THAT DOESN'T HAPPEN ALL THAT
OFTEN AND OF COURSE WE DID SEND
THE B52S THROUGH AS WELL, AND
THE U.S. PRESENCE AND OUR
FORCEFUL RESPONSE TO CHINA'S
UNILATERAL ACTIONS I THINK HAS
PREVENTED A MUCH WORSE KIND OF
CRISIS, BECAUSE IF WE HAD NOT
BEEN THERE, THEN PERHAPS THE
JAPANESE WOULD HAVE FELT THEY
HAD TO REACT MORE STRONGLY, THE
CHINESE WOULD HAVE REACTED TO
THAT AND THINGS COULD HAVE SPUN
OUT OF CONTROL.
>> BUT THIS HAS BEEN BUBBLING
FOR A WHILE, I WANT TO CONTINUE
WITH YOU FOR A MOMENT, SUSAN
SHIRK AND YET NOW WE HAVE THIS
ACTION.
WAS IT PURPOSEFULLY PROVOCATIVE
ON CHINA'S PART?
>> WELL, ACTUALLY, I AM KIND OF
PUZZLED ABOUT THE TIMING.
WE CERTAINLY BELIEVE THAT
SHIPING MUST HAVE PERSONALLY
APPROVED IT BUT COMING SO
SHORTLY ON THE HEALS OF THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF CHINA'S REFORM
BLUEPRINT THAT JUST A FEW WEEKS
AGO WE WERE DISCUSSING, WHICH
GOT PRETTY GOOD REVIEWS
INTERNATIONALLY, AND NOW
EVERYONE IS DISCUSSING CHINA'S
ASSERT IF THE, EVEN AGGRESSIVE
ACTIONS.
NOW, OF COURSE, THIS AIR DEFENSE
NOTIFICATION ZONE IS PERFECTLY
LEGAL AND CHINA HAS EVERY RIGHT
TO DO IT, BUT IF THEY A HAD DONE
IT IN CONSULTATION WITH THEIR
NEIGHBORS, IF IT WERE REALLY
AIMED AT SAFETY INSTEAD OF
STRENGTHENING ITS CLAIM TO THESE
ISLANDS, THEN THINGS WOULD HAVE
BEEN OF COURSE MUCH BETTER.
>> Woodruff: I WILL ASK KIRK
CAMPBELL ABOUT THAT.
I AM ACTUALLY WITH SUSAN ABOUT
THIS.
I AM MYSTIFIED ABOUT THE TIMING
AND THE APPROACH.
REMEMBER, CHINESE STRATEGY
REALLY IS TO NARROW THIS BETWEEN
CHINA AND JAPAN, TO TRY TO EASE
THE AMERICANS OUT OF IT AND
CERTAINLY NOT TO REGIONALIZE THE
DYNAMIC BUT BY DOING IT THE WAY
THEY HAVE, THEY HAVE UNDERMINED
ONE OF THE GREAT ACHIEVEMENTS OF
THE LAST SEVERAL YEARS WHICH IS
AN IMPROVEMENT IN CHINA-SOUTH
KOREAN RELATIONS WHICH WE
SUPPORT, AND IT IS ALSO BROUGHT
THE UNITED STATES VERY CLEARLY
INTO PLAY, AND SO MY SENSE, AND
IT IS ALSO ON THE, IT TAKES
PLACE RIGHT ON THE EVE OF VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN'S STRFT SO I
THINK THIS WAS NOT WELL
EXECUTED.
I DON'T THINK IT WAS WELL
CONCEPTUALIZED AND I DON'T THINK
IT HAS FURTHERED CHINESE FOREIGN
POLICY OR NATIONAL SECURITY.
>> Woodruff: SO WHAT YOU HAVE
SEEN HAPPEN, CAMPBELL, IS U.S.
JAPAN, SOUTH KOREA, CONTINUES
MILITARY FIGHTS OVER THAT
AIRSPACE, THAT AIRSPACE, WAS
THIS -- WHAT ARE THE CHANCE THIS
IS BECOMES A DIPLOMATIC STANDOFF
AND ESCALATES FROM THAT TO A
MILITARY STANDOFF INVOLVING ANY
OF THOSE PLAYERS?
>> WHAT HAS GONE ON BETWEEN
JAPAN AND CHINA HAS NOW GONE ON
FOR OVER A YEAR AND THIS IS LIKE
A CASE OF THE MUMPS, YOU KNOW,
IT COMES AND GOES.
THESE TERRITORIAL ISSUES ARE
NOTHING NEW IN ASIA, BUT THIS
PARTICULAR CYCLE HAS BEEN LONGER
AND MORE INTENSE.
I THINK THE MOST LIKELY THING IS
NOT A DIPLOMATIC CRISIS WHICH
BUT A LONE ACTOR, A GUYRY
ON A FISHING BOAT OR A PLANE
CAPTAIN THAT BASICALLY EXCEEDS
WHAT, YOU KNOW, HOPEFULLY ARE
OCCURRENCE RULES OF ENGAGEMENTS
AND THERE IS A COLLISION OR A
CRASH OR A LOCAL CRISIS WHICH
THEN HAS AN INTENSE SHORT
DURATION BUT IN THAT PARTICULAR
AREA WHICH WILL REALLY CAUSE A
CRISIS IN RELATIONS BETWEEN
CHINA AND JAPAN.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN SHIRK WHAT
IS THE U.S. STANCE ON THE STOFER
GNTY OF THESE ISLANDS,
THE ROCKS IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
SEA?
>> WELL, WE TAKE A NEUTRAL
POSITION.
WE DON'T SIDE EITHER WITH JAPAN
OR CHINA ON THE SOVEREIGNTY
CLAIM.
>> Woodruff: WHY NOT?
>> WHY NOT?  WELL, THAT IS OUR
POSITION, WE ARE NEUTRAL ON MOST
SOVEREIGNTY CLAIMS JUST AS WE
ARE NEUTRAL ON THE CLAIMS IN THE
SOUTH CHINA SEA.
WE DON'T HAVE A POSITION, BUT WE
DO HAVE A TREATY COMMITMENT TO
JAPAN, WHICH EXTENDS TO AREAS
UNDER JAPAN'S EFFECTIVE CONTROL,
WHICH MEANS THE SENKAKU, DIAOYU
ISLANDS, SO THIS IS A POSITION
THAT CERTAINLY IN CHINA IS NOT
ACCEPTED, IT DOESN'T MAKE MUCH
SENSE TO THEM, BUT THAT IS WHAT
OUR POSITION IS, AND WE STAND BY
IT.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
FINALLY WHETHER YOU THINK THAT
GIVEN WHAT HAS HAPPENED, THE
BACKDROP THAT HAPPENS WITH THE
PLANES IN FLYOVER WITH NO
INCIDENT, NO REACTION, WHAT ARE
THE CHANCES ESPECIALLY WITH VICE
PRESIDENT BIDEN VIC VISITING THE
TOMORROW THAT THE TIME -- THAT
THE CHINESE WILL BACK OFF?
WRONG THEY CAN FORMALLY OR
PUBLICLY BACK OFF.
I THINK WHAT THEY ARE LIKELY TO
DO IS EITHER TAYLOR THEIR
OPERATIONAL DIMENSION TO VERY
NARROW CIRCUMSTANCES.
THEY MAY JUST STOP TALKING AN IT
FOR A WHILE OR THEY MAY DECIDE
TO CHANGE THE SUBJECT.
I DON'T THINK IT IS LIKELY THAT
THEY WILL CONTINUE WITH
LAUNCHING FIRE AIRCRAFT AGAINST
UNCERTAIN CIVILIAN OVER FLIGHT.
I JUST THINK THAT IS SO CONTRARY
TO THEIR STRATEGIC INTERESTS.
ULTIMATELY, I THINK THE U.S.
ROLE HERE IS TO PRIVATELY GO IN
TO JAPAN, TO SOUTH KOREA AND TO
CHINA AND SAY, LOOK, YOU HAVE
GOT TO PUT SOME OF THESE ISSUES
BEHIND YOU AND WORK MORE
CONSTRUCTIVELY ON FUTURE, LARGER
ISSUES, AND NOT WHAT ARE REALLY
TERTIARY ISSUES.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN SHIRK, WHAT
DO YOU THINK?  WILL THEY KIND OF
BACK OFF OR DOES THE U.S. HAVE A
ROLE?
>> NO, I DON'T THINK CHINA WILL
BACK OFF AND I DON'T THINK -- I
MEAN, ALTHOUGH THAT WOULD BE OUR
PREFERENCE, I THINK WHAT WE
SHOULD DO IS TO PRESSTH SIDES
TO CONSULT ON EMERGENCY
COMMUNICATION MEASURES IN ORDER
TO PRESENT ACCIDENTS, PREVENT
ACCIDENTS AND WE SHOULD ALSO ASK
CHINA WHAT ITS INTENTION WHEREAS
IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA BECAUSE
IN THAT ANNOUNCEMENT, IT MADE ON
THE AIR DEFENSE NOTIFICATION
ZONE, IT SAID IT INTENDED TO
ANNOUNCE FURTHER ZONES IN
CERTAIN AREAS, WHICH COULD MEAN
THAT WHERE -- WE ARE HEADING UP
ON A SIMILAR CRY DISMISS THE
SOUTH CHINA SEA.
AND THIS IS REALLY VERY
DANGEROUS, BECAUSE RIGHT NOW,
THE NATIONALIST PUBLIC IN CHINA
IS PRESSING THE GOVERNMENT AND
SAYING ARE YOU JUST A PAPER
TIGER?  YOU HAVE MADE THIS
THREAT, AND YOU ARE NOT ACTING
UPON IT, AND THAT IS ONE THING I
AM QUITE CONCERNED ABOUT.
>> Woodruff: SUSAN SHIRK, KURT
CAMPBELL, THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>
>> Woodruff: NEXT, HOW THE
AMERICAN EDUCATION SYSTEM STACKS
UP IN GLOBAL RANKINGS AND THE
QUESTIONS SURROUNDING THAT
ASSESSMENT.
>> Brown: IT'S CONSIDERED BY
MANY THE WORLD'S MOST IMPORTANT
EXAM.
THE PROGRAM FOR INTERNATIONAL
STUDENT ASSESSMENT, OR "PISA"
TEST, HAS BEEN GIVEN TO 15-YEAR-
OLDS IN 65 COUNTRIES EVERY THREE
YEARS SINCE 2000.
A WAY TO TEST AND COMPARE
PERFORMANCES IN READING, MATH
AND SCIENCE.
RESULTS FROM 2012 WERE RELEASED
TODAY, AND, ONCE AGAIN, THE U.S.
HOVERED NEAR THE MIDDLE OF THE
PACK, LAGGING IN SOME AREAS EVEN
AS OTHER COUNTRIES ADVANCED.
MATH REMAINS THE BIGGEST
CHALLENGE.
29 OTHER SYSTEMS HAD HIGHER
AVERAGE SCORES THAN AMERICAN
HIGH SCHOOLERS.
THE U.S. FARED BETTER IN
READING, WHERE IT RANKED 20th,
AND IN SCIENCE, RANKING 23rd.
THE BEST RESULTS WERE IN EAST
ASIA, WHERE STUDENTS FROM
SHANGHAI, SINGAPORE, SOUTH KOREA
AND JAPAN, AMONG OTHERS, PLACED
NEAR THE TOP.
PISA RESULTS ALSO SHOWED ANOTHER
CONCERN FOR AMERICAN TEENS AS
WELL: A SMALLER PERCENTAGE OF
THEM REACHED THE TOP LEVELS OF
PROFICIENCY.
AS IN THE PAST, THOUGH, SOME
EDUCATION EXPERTS QUESTIONED
JUST WHAT AND HOW MUCH PISA
TELLS US, GIVEN SOCIAL, CULTURAL
AND ECONOMIC DIFFERENCES AMONG
NATIONS.
THE PISA TEST IS COORDINATED BY
THE ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC
COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT, THE
O.E.C.D.
ANDREAS SCHLEICHER SERVES AS
DEPUTY DIRECTOR FOR EDUCATION
AND SKILLS THERE.
HE HELPED DEVELOP AND RUNS THE
TESTS, AND JOINS US NOW.
>> SO EXPLAIN TO US FIRST, WHAT
IS THE ROLE AND IMPORTANCE OF
THESE TESTS?  WHAT DO THEY
ACTUALLY TELL US?
>> WELL, THEY ALLOW US TO LOOK
AT WHAT IS POSSIBLE IN
EDUCATION.
THEY SHOW US WHAT THE WORLD'S
LEADING EDUCATION SYSTEMS, WHAT
IS POSSIBLE IN TERMS OF STUDENT
ACHIEVEMENT, IN TERMS OF EQUITY
IN EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES,
THEY ARE VERY IMPORTANT IN WHICH
WE CAN LOOK AT OURSELVES IN THE
LIGHT OF WHAT OTHER COUNTRIES
SHOW IS POSSIBLE, REALLY.
>> SO WHEN WE LOOK AT OURSELVES,
THE HEADLINE ONCE AGAIN WAS,
AVERAGE.
IS THAT THE --
>> SOME COUNTRIES HAVE MOVED
AHEAD.
IS THAT THE TAKE AWAY THAT YOU
WOULD PUT FOR THE U.S.?
>> WELL, YES, I THINK THE U.S.
IS AN AVERAGE PERFORMER.
WILL IS A LOT OF MOVEMENT AROUND
THE WORLD, CHANGE HIGH,
SINGAPORE MOVING FROM GOOD TO
GREAT, IN EUROPE, POLAND,
GERMANY ACTUALLY ADDRESSING MANY
OF THE SAME CHALLENGES THE U.S.
FACES IN TERMS OF CREATING MORE
EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION OF
LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES, AND A
LOT OF LESSONS IN THAT, NOT JUST
SORT OF SEEING, YA, YEAH, YEAH,
IT IS HOW THINGS CAN BECOME
BETTER.
>> ONE OF THE CRITICISMS YOU
MENTIONED SHANGHAI, SINGAPORE,
HOW DO YOU COMPARE THEM,
SHANGHAI, A CITY, TO THE UNITED
STATES?  WHERE THERE ARE SO MANY
HUGE DIFFERENCES?
>> ABSOLUTELY, THAT IS A VERY
FAIR POINT.  AND IT IS MORE
APPROPRIATE TO COMPARE FOR
EXAMPLE SHANGHAI, THE PROVINCE
IN CHINA WITH MASSACHUSETTS, THE
TOP PERFORMING STATE IN THE
U.S., BUT STILL, THERE IS A GAP
OF TWO AND A HALF SCHOOL YEARS,
SHANGHAI LEADING MASSACHUSETTS,
SO IT IS RELEVANT FOR US TO LOOK
TO THOSE PLACES, HOWEVER, THEY
ACTUALLY DELIVER THOSE KIND OF
OUT COMES.
>> WHAT DO YOU SEE SOME
COUNTRIES DOING WELL THAT WE ARE
NOT DOING HERE?
>> WELL, A, IN PARTICULAR IN
EAST ASIA THEY GIVE A GREAT
CENTRAL TO EDUCATION, THEY
ATTRACT GREAT PEOPLE INTO THE
TEACHING PROFESSION.
THEY ATTRACT THE MOST TALENTED
TEACHERS AND THE MOST
CHALLENGING CLASSROOMS, THE U.S.
HAS GREAT DIFFICULTIES WITH.
AND EVERY STUDENT BELIEVES THAT
THEY ARE THE OWNERS OF THEIR
SUCCESS, THAT THEIR INVESTMENT
IN LEARNING EFFORT IS GOING TO
MAKE A DIFFERENCE, NOT TALENT,
THE AMOUNT OF LESSONS I THINK
ALL OVER THE WORLD WE CAN LEARN
FROM EAST ASIA AND SEE HIGH
PERFORMING SYSTEMS IN EUROPE,
WHEN YOU LOOK AT CAN -- VERY
IMPRESSIVE IN SOME OF THE
PROVINCES THERE.
>> AND YOU SEE THEM TAKING
ACTIONS THAT HAVE -- YOU HAVE
SEEN THE SHIFT FROM THE LAST
TIME THAT THESE RESULTS?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
SHANGHAI DID REALLY GOOD LAST
TIME BUT THEY ARE DOING A LOT
BETTER NOW.
IT IS NOT ONLY THE RELATIVE
POSITION THAT WE HAVE SEEN, BUT
ALSO THE PACE OF CHANGE, AT THE
BOTTOM OF THE LIST YOU CAN SEE A
COUNTRY LIKE BRAZIL RISING FROM
THE BOTTOM, TURKEY, MEXICO,
THERE IS A LOT OF IMPROVEMENT,
OUT OF 65 COUNTRIES, 40 HAVE
SEEN SOME IMPROVEMENT IN ONE OF
THE THREE SUBJECTS.
>> THE U.S. HAS A HIGHER
PROPORTION OF LOWER INCOME
STUDENTS, THAN MANY OF THESE
KUNTZ, THE U.S. HAS A MORE
DIVERSE POPULATION, INCLUDING
IMMIGRANT GROUPS IN MANY OF
THESE COUNTRIES.
>> ACTUALLY, WITH OUR COMMON
BELIEF -- ON INCOME THAT IS NOT
ACTUALLY RIGHT, IN TERMS OF
CHILD POVERTY THE U.S. IS AROUND
THE AVERAGE, AMONG MANY
COUNTRIES, IT HAS A MORE DIVERSE
POPULATION BUT EVEN IF YOU
ACCOUNT FOR ALL OF THOSE
FACTORS, YOU KNOW, TO TAKE
VIETNAM A COUNTRY THAT IS VERY
-- HAS POVERTY AND STILL IT
COMES OUT BETTER THAN THE
AVERAGE.
SO QUALITY IS A CHALLENGE, BUT
YOU CAN ACTUALLY SEE SOME
COUNTRIES VERY GOOD AT
MODERATING INEQUALITY AND VERY
GOOD AT HELPING DISADVANTAGED
STUDENTS ACTUALLY TO EXCEL, YOU
SEE IT IN ASIA AND SIPPING PORE
AND JAPAN, YOU SEE IT IN
NORTHERN EUROPE WHERE YOU HAVE
CHILDREN COMING OUT OF POVERTY,
AND THE EDUCATION SYSTEM THEN
ASSURES THOSE CHILDREN GET THE
BEST EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES.
>> THESE NUMBERS ARE INEVITABLY
POUNCED UPON BY ADVOCATES OF ALL
KINDS, RIGHT?  ONCE WE KNOW THE
.. RESULTS OF THE TESTS, CAN WE
THEREFORE SAY POLICY X IS THE
RIGHT WAY TO GO?  POLICY Y FOR
ANY PARTICULAR COUNTRY?  AND I
AM THINKING SPECIFICALLY OF THE
U.S. HERE.
WE HAVE THESE -- WE HAVE ALL
KINDS OF DISCUSSIONS AND DEBATES
ON THE TABLE.
>> IT IS HARD TO COME TO CAUSE
AND EFFECT WHEN YOU A STUDY LIKE
THIS AND YOU CAN'T COPY AND
PASTE AND EDUCATION SYSTEM, BUT
I DO THINK THAT WHAT THE
COMPARISONS ALLOW YOU, THEY
ALLOW YOU TO STUDY THE DRIVERS
OF SUCCESS, WHAT HAVE THOSE
COUNTRIES ACTUALLY DONE THAT
HAVE MOVED UPWARDS AND HAVE
REALIZED GOOD RESULTS?  AND THEN
TO THINK ABOUT HOW YOU CAN
CONFIGURE THOSE DRIVERS IN YOUR
OWN CONTEXT, ACTUALLY, SOME ONE
COUNTRY THAT DOES THAT WELL IS
SINGAPORE, IN SINGAPORE YOU
HAVEN'T SEEN NOTHING THAT YOU
HAVEN'T SEEN SOMEWHERE ELSE BUT
THEY MADE IT WORK.
HERE AND ACROSS THE WHOLE
SYSTEM, THEY ARE VERY GOOD AT
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION.
>> YES, BUT YOU MENTIONED
SINGAPORE AGAIN AND PEOPLE SAY,
SINGAPORE OKAY THAT IS AN
INTERESTING COUNTRY, A SMALLER
COUNTRY AND HAS A MUCH MORE
STRICTER REGIME THAN -- AND IT
IS A DIFFERENT FORM OF CUP
GOVERNMENT THAN THE US U.S.
>> LET ME GIVE YOU ANOTHER
EXAMPLE, IN MY OWN COUNTRY,
GERMANY, IS POORLY ON PISA, IN
TERMS OF AVERAGE PERFORMANCE AND
IN TERMS OF THE ACHIEVEMENT GAP.
THE COUNTRY HAS REALLY WORKED
HARD ON THESE KIND OF ISSUES,
GIVING IMMIGRANT STUDENTS BETTER
CHANCES IN SCHOOL, INVESTINGINTR
INCOME STUDENTS, AND THE
PERFORMANCE GAP BETWEEN THE RICH
AND THE LESS WEALTHY CHILDREN
HAVE HALVED IN THE PERIOD OF
NINE YEARS.
SO ACTUALLY, THERE ARE
CHALLENGES BUT ACTUALLY THERE
ARE GOOD EXAMPLES, POLAND,
ANOTHER MIDDLE INCOME COUNTRY
THAT HAS SEEN DRAMATIC
IMPROVEMENTS ON ITS LEARNING OUT
COMES.
>> SO JUST IN THE LAST THREE
SECONDS YOUR ADVICE IS GET PAST
THE HEADLINES.
>> RIGHT.
>> AND TRY TO SEE WHAT CAN WORK
IN A GIVEN COUNTRY?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE WORLD IS A FANTASTIC
LABORATORY, WE CAN ACTUALLY SEE
DIFFERENT IDEAS PLAYING OUT IN
DIFFERENT WAYS AND WE CAN
ACTUALLY -- WE DON'T HAVE TO
COPY EVERY THING BUT WE CAN LOOK
AT HOW IDEAS LIKE CHOICE, LIKE
COMPETITION, LIKE STANDARDS, HOW
THEY HAVE BEEN PLAYED OUT AND IN
THE U.S. I THINK THERE IS ONE
GREAT EXAMPLE IF YOU LOOK AT THE
COMMON CORE STANDARDS THAT ARE
NOW BEING IMPLEMENTED BY STATES
THIS IS EXACTLY AN IDEA LIKE
THIS, INTERNATIONAL BENCHMARK,
THEY ACTUALLY ARE MODELED ON THE
TOP PERFORMING EDUCATIONAL
SYSTEMS, IF THEY ARE ACTUALLY
DONE IN CLASSROOMS THEY ARE GET
THE U.S. PRETTY MUCH UPWARDS.
>> THAT IS AN ON GOING EXAMPLE
THAT WE WILL BE WATCHING
OVERTIME, ANDREAS SCHLEICHER OF
THE EECD, OECD, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>>
>> Ifill: WE'LL BE BACK SHORTLY
WITH A DETAILED LOOK AT THE
DETROIT BANKRUPTCY RULING AND
WHAT IT MEANS FOR THE MOTOR
CITY.
BUT FIRST, WE ARE TAKING A SHORT
BREAK TO ALLOW YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, THE
CHOICES AHEAD AS DETROIT MOVES
FORWARD WITH BANKRUPTCY.
TODAY'S RULING BY A FEDERAL
JUDGE BEGINS TO CLEAR THE WAY
FOR IT TO HAPPEN, AND HE SAID
PUBLIC PENSIONS COULD BE CUT AS
PART OF OTHER CHANGES AIMED AT
SHEDDING BILLIONS IN DEBT.
UNIONS AND PENSION FUNDS HAD
ARGUED THAT MICHIGAN'S STATE
CONSTITUTION PROTECTED THOSE
PENSIONS.
CHRISTY McDONALD OF DETROIT
PUBLIC TELEVISION JOINS US
AGAIN.
>> CHRISTY, WELCOME BACK TO THE
PROGRAM.
REMIND US WHY THIS JUDGE'S
RULING WAS NECESSARY.
THE CITY WAS PRETTY MUCH ALREADY
CLEARLY GOING INTO BANKRUPTCY,
WASN'T IT?
>> IT WAS.
BUT, JUDY, HE HAD TO ANSWER
SEVERAL LEGAL QUESTIONS BEFORE
HE COULD CLEAR THE WAY FOR
DETROIT'S ELIGIBILITY FOR
CHAPTER 9, 1 OF THOSE IS THE
CITY INSOLVENT AND THE JUDGE
FOUND YES, THE CITY IS INSOLVENT
AND CAN'T PAY ITS DEBTS AND NO
ONE REALLY ARRANGED THAT POINT
THERE, THERE IS AN $18 BILLION
DEBT, THE OTHER QUESTION HE HAD
TO ANSWER WAS, DID THE CITY
NEGOTIATE IN GOOD FAITH WITH ITS
CREDITORS BEFORE THEY EVEN FILED
FOR BANKRUPTCY?  AND WHILE HE
CHASTISED THE CITY AND SAID YOU
KNOW WHAT?  THE CITY REALLY DID
NOT NEGOTIATE IN GOOD FAITH HE
MOVED TO THE NEXT LEGAL QUESTION
WAS, DID THE CITY, WAS IT EVEN
POSSIBLE FOR THEM TO NEGOTIATE
AND HE SAID IT REALLY WASN'T
GIVEN THE FACT THEY HAD 100,000
CREDITORS IN AN $18 BILLION
DEBT, AND THEN THE OTHER
QUESTION HE HAD TO ANSWER WAS,
WAS IT CONSTITUTIONAL TO FILE
FOR BANKRUPTCY AND INDEED HE
SAID YES, IT WAS.
AN INTERESTINGLY ENOUGH THE
JUDGE SAID THAT DETROIT SHOULD
HAVE AND COULD HAVE FILED FOR
BANKRUPTCY EVEN YEARS AGO, GIVEN
THTHE FINANCIAL SITUATION IT IS
IN.
>> SO, CHRISTY, HOW DO THE
PENSIONS OF CITY WORKERS BECOME
A PART OF THIS?
>> WELL, ONCE THEY STARTED GOING
INTO CHAPTER -- ONCE THEY
STARTED GOING INTO CHAPTER 9,
THE CREDITORS ARE LOOKING AT THE
PENSIONERS AND THE RETIREES THEY
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT THAT
MONEY WASN'T GOING TO BE
TOUCHED, BUT WHAT HAPPENED IS,
IS THEY TOOK A LOOK AT IT AND
THE JUDGE SAID, YOU KNOW WHAT?
IN FEDERAL BANKRUPTCY COURT THAT
IS A CONTRACT, THE PENSION IS
GOING TO BE TERMED AS A CONTRACT
THAT CAN BE RESTRUCTURED IN THIS
PROCESS, SO EVEN THOUGH THE
PENSIONS ARE PROTECTED UNDER THE
MICHIGAN CONSTITUTION IN FEDERAL
BANKRUPTCY COURT IT IS GOING TOD
THE CITY ONCE THEY GO THROUGH
THE RESTRUCTURING PLAN TREAD
LIGHTLY HE WON'T GO WITH ANY
AGREEMENT THAT GUTS THE
AGREEMENTS AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT
21,000 RETIREES FROM THE CITY OF
DETROIT, RETIREES THEY WORKED
THEIR LIVES AND THEY KNEW THEY
WERE GOING TO GET THE PENSIONS
AT THE VERY END AND THEY COULD
BE LOSING SOME OF THAT MONEY
THAT SHOULD BE COMING TO THEM.
>> WELL, IS IT POSSIBLE TO KNOW
AT THIS POINT WHAT PERCENTAGE OF
THEIR RETIREMENT MONEY THEIR
PENSION COULD BE AFFECTED?
REDUCED BY THIS?
>>
>> Woodruff:.
>> .
WE WON'T KNOW.
THAT IS GOING TO BE PART OF THE
ONGOING NEGOTIATIONS NOW THAT
THE EMERGENCY MANAGER OF THE
CITY OF DETROIT IS NOW GOING TO
START TO GO THROUGH WITH THE
PENSIONERS AND THEN OTHER
CREDITORS.
WE WON'T SEE ANYTHING UNTIL
PROBABLY THE FIRST OR SECOND
WEEK OF JANUARY, THEY DO HAVE
UNTIL MARCH 1ST TO GET THAT
RESTRUCTURING, THAT
RESTRUCTURING ORDER IN TO THE
JUDGE.
>> HOW IS IT, TELL US JUST
BRIEFLY HOW IS THAT PROCESS
GOING TO WORK?  WHO MAKES THESE
DECISIONS WHICH OF COURSE THE
WORKERS THEMSELVES, THE UNIONS
ARE GOING TO CONTINUE TO PUSH
BACK ON?
>> THEY ARE GOING TO CONTINUE TO
FIGHT ON THAT, ONE UNION ALREADY
FILED AND APPEAL TO TODAY'S
RULING AND YOU CAN PROBABLY
EXPECT MORE LITIGATION IN THE
DAYS AND THE WEEKS TO COME, BUT
EVENTUALLY THEY ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO SIT DOWN AND HAVE TO SIT
ACROSS THE TABLE FROM KEVYN ORR
THE EMERGENCY MANAGER THE ONE
WHO WILL BE NEGOTIATING THIS
ENTIRE PROCESS AND NOT ONLY IS
HE GOING TO BE NEGOTIATING WITH
RETIREES HE IS GOING TO BE
NEGOTIATING WITH THE LENDERS AND
BEING NEGOTIATING WITH OTHER
LEND IN OTHER WORDS TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO PARE DOWN THIS
MASSIVE DEBT.
>> Woodruff: AND FINALLY,
CHRISTY, TELL US ABOUT THE
SERVICE, THE CITY HAS LOST SO
MUCH IN THE WAY OF SERVICES, I
WAS READING TODAY THE AVERAGE
FOR EXAMPLE RESPONSE TIME FOR
THE POLICE IS SOMETHING LIKE
FIVE TIMES THE NATIONAL AVERAGE.
WHAT IS THE CITY EXPECTING IN
THE WAY OF SEEING SOME OF THOSE
SERVICES LOST RESTORED NOW?
>> WHEN WE SEE THE HEADLINE OF
THE LARGEST MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY
IN DETROIT, IN, IN DETROIT, IN
IS STARTING TO MAKE WAY WHEN YOU
START TO ERASE THE DEBT AND COME
OUT WITH A CLEAN SLATE IS YOU
ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO A TAKE
THE TAX REVENUE THAT COMES INTO
THE CITY OF DETROIT AND PUT IT
BACK INTO THE SERVICES LIKE
POLICE, THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
LIKE THE FIRE DEPARTMENT AND
MAKING SURE THE FIRE RIGS ARE
WORKING WHEN THEY ARE CALLED OUT
TO A FIRE AND PICKING UP TRASH
AND MAKING SURE THE LIGHTING
GRID IS UP AND RUNNING AND
WORKING STREETLIGHTS IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS IN THE CITY OF
DETROIT, SO WHAT THAT IS GOING
TO DO, WHEN YOU BRING DOWN THE
DEBT AND YOU BRING IT, YOU ERASE
IT AND YOU START WITH THAT CLEAN
SLATE YOU WILL BE ABLE TO INFUSE
MONEY BACK INTO THE CITY OF
DETROIT, BACK INTO THE SERVICES
AND REALLY MAKE DETROIT A BETTER
PLACE TO LIVE AND THAT IS THE
BOTTOM LINE IN IN STORY.
>> A BIG DAY, IN THE LIFE OF
YOUR CITY, DETRO.IT
CHRISTY MCDONALD, WE THANK YOU
VERY MUCH.
>> THANKS, JUDY.
>>
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE OTHER
MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TOUTED THE
BENEFITS OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT IN A BID TO SHIFT THE FOCUS
FROM PROBLEMS WITH
healthcare.gov AND POLICY
CANCELLATIONS.
VICE PRESIDENT BIDEN ARRIVED IN
JAPAN AND REBUKED CHINA FOR
IMPOSING AN AIR DEFENSE ZONE
OVER DISPUTED ISLANDS.
HE SAID IT COULD LEAD TO
"ACCIDENTS AND MISCALCULATIONS."
AND PROTESTS EASED IN THAILAND
AS THE PRIME MINISTER ORDERED
POLICE TO AVOID NEW
CONFRONTATIONS WITH
DEMONSTRATORS DEMANDING HER
OUSTER.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE, RIGHT NOW, HOW SMART
HIRING MANAGERS CAN HELP YOU GET
A JOB BY TELLING YOU WHAT TO
EXPECT IN THE INTERVIEW PROCESS.
THAT'S ON "MAKING SENSE."
HAS ANIMATED 1994 INTERVIEW
WITH THE LATE RAPPER 2PAC SHAH
CURE WHERE HE SAYS HE FELT LIKE
A TRAGIC HERO FROM A SHAKESPEARE
PLAY, YOU CAN WATCH THAT VIDEO
ON THE RUNDOWN.
ALL OF THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEB SITE, NEWS HOURS DOT
PBS.ORG.
>>
HE Woodruff: AND THAT'S T
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT
WHAT MILLENNIALS, A GROUP KEY TO
THE SUCCESS OF THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT, THINK ABOUT ENROLLING
FOR INSURANCE ON THE NEW
MARKETPLACES.
PLUS, WE SIT DOWN WITH THE LEAD
U.S. NEGOTIATOR FOR
INTERNATIONAL TALKS ON IRAN AND
SYRIA.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.